Steve
Survival Log III
April 27, 2014
   Day 1

  Something strange has happened, I feel like I have gone back in time. Well, it's more than just the way I feel, the appearance of the world has greatly altered since I awoke this morning. The question is - have I gone back in time or where have I ended up? The appearence of things like cobblestone and gravel reminds me of how they looked years ago, yet the grass is fresh and unfimilar.
  I spawned with nothing, and I cannot seem to find my old house. I did stumble into something admist my exploring that makes me think I have traveled back in time, a gravel beach. It brought a smile to my face to see it, it has been too long since I last saw a beach full of the pale yet colorful little stones. There were cliffs nearby that were incredible, again it reminded me of how things were years ago. I sat at the beach for a while and pondered where I might be this time. Perhaps I'm in the past, but has the past been altered? Is the future I know now gone?
  Well I had to get in routine, perpare for sundown. I found a cave and breifly explored it, but it returned nothing valuable, not even coal. It kept going, but I did not have enough time to go deeper, because the evening sky had started to appear. I quickly setup a small shack that was connected to the wall of a cliff so that I could dig down throughout the night.
  Dang, my wooden pickaxe broke much faster than I expected. I did not collect enough materials to make more tools. I could try to grab more wood outside, but there are a few monsters. I am not going to risk dying.

   Day 2

  After roaming the surface for a little while to find food, I rand into a new ore, copper. It was a couple of blocks higher than the highest height I've ever found iron. I still have not found any coal, so I guess I'll have to resort for charcoal for a while.
  Once night had fallen, I tried to dig a linear stairwell out again, this time using copper. The copper still did not last long, but it was better. Perhaps I should explore the surface cave I found yesterday instead of trying to dig down first. I decided to start making the interior of the house look nice for the rest of the night.

   Day 3 

  I was afraid to keep exploring the surface cave. I just kept exploring deeper, and the cave would continue to split off in new directions I still have not stepped foot in. Occasionally I'd run into a spot that was really open and full of monsters. My wood sword has also proven to be poor in combat, so I have not attempted to conquer the open cave rooms. I found a couple of other new things I had not encountered before: zinc, tin, pebble, and aluminum. They are smelting in the furnace as I write this.

   Day 5

  I got lost in the caves for a whole day, I just returned this morning. The caves are far more interlocking and spread out than I remember them. They also do not go deep easily. Hence, I only new thing I found was bismuth, but I'm sure there's more new metals awaiting me deeper underground. Is Iron still in the game? I have not found any. Oh, I did finally find coal! In fact, I found two veins of it, so I'm set for the time being for fuel.
  I might take the next day or so to gather resources at the surface and prepare for a bigger expedition underground.

   Day 7

  I've discovered after toying around with crafting recipies this afternoon that you can make a different furnace out of brick blocks. Not just bricks, but brick blocks. I have not been able to get it working, further testing is needed.

   Day 8

  Finally got a working recipe for the Brick Oven, the new furnace. You combine five copper ingots and one tin ingot with a coal as fuel at the bottom. This provides six ingots of the alloy Bronze. Choarcoal also works, but does not seem to be as effective in heating the ingots up. Bronze has proven to be a lot more durable than anything else I've found in the caves thus far. I believe I can use Bronze as a much easier way to mine deeper underground. Good thing I have all the resources I need. The adventure deeper into the ground begins tommorow.

   Day 10

  I recently encountered one of the scariest sights I have ever seen! I was able to find a cave deeper in the ground and after exploring for a time, I saw a monster spanwer, but it was not the usual dungeon. The spawner was located in the center of a mossy spire that was at the center of one of those cave rooms. Skeletons were all over the place! I had to run. I did encounter a new metal before running though: Cobalt. Its ore was brown but the ingot is blue. Hm...

   Day 11

  Cobalt has proven to be heavy and slow but extremely durable compared to bronze. For now I have mined around the Skeleton Spire using my new Cobalt pickaxe, I just do not have the tools to take that down at the moment. 

   Day 13

  I thought I saw another person in the distance while chopping down some wood. I do not believe it was a zombie since it was stading there in the day without catching fire. I am a little scared to be honest, I was hoping I was alone here, like usual. This person could be hostile, I should get ready for an encounter just in case.

   Day 14

  Cobalt armor and sword have proven to be stronger than I expected, so I took on the Skeleton Spire and successfully conquered it. Unfortunately I have found no loot near it.
  Exploring the cave deeper has led me to discover Chromium Ore and some other ores I've already discovered. The Chrome pickaxe has been much faster than anything else I've used so far, it is more durable than Bronze, but Cobalt is still the most durable thing I have by far. throughout the night I am going to see if I can conjure any new alloys.
  I am still keeping an eye out for that other person. If I do not see him or her in the next few days, I believe I am safe. They may not be hostile anyways.

   Day 15

  I was able to make Brass out of three copper and three zinc in the brick oven, but nothing else so far. Brass has been an underwhelming discovery, it seems to be similar to bronze. I decided to see if I can craft anything new, and so far I have found a few blocks but they do not appear to have any purpose outside of building. One was a window, glass surround by planks, and another was called "Stone Brick", which was simply crafting stone into this block. Hm...