Zowja
The Hardest and Strangest Thing I've Ever Done
September 12, 2017
As you may know, I am a Christian. That in itself is a different book you may find. In that story, I spoke about Hannah, an ex girlfriend that ended up becoming one of the greatest influences on who I am. She was beautiful, sharp, and also a Christian. We went through a nearly year-long relationship, and ended in disaster. The disaster was mostly my fault because I was selfish and unwilling to give her up, and you can imagine the disaster that created. Do not hold onto someone like that kids, it can cause mental scars that may take years to heal. Just be a friend and love one another, the second greatest Commandment. I assure you, it ends a lot better and you can even still be friends longer that way. Anyways, even despite the salt I had thrown at Hannah, she was still a friend to me, and still tried to be there when I was really upset. She did not have to do this for me, she could have justly dumped me and never spoke to me again with how I was acting towards the end of our relationship, but she did not. She still loved me as a friend, for that is the second greatest Commandment. A few weeks go by and now we are going to the same college what we planned to go to together, but instead we are separated. It is Grove City College, a Christian college of course! Lol, but it seriously is a really nice college, parties are hilarious and are not stupid: There's no alcohol, drugs, injuries, or black-outs in some form... At least nothing like that happens on campus. We can all have fun together in the Light, fellowship in the Light, and balance that with college work well. We even trust one another enough morally at this college, which is over 2000 people if I'm not mistaken, that we use our wallets as a means of claiming a seat at a table in a cafeteria. What other college does that?
  ANYWAYS - That is where Hannah and I are at now, and after being here a few weeks and seeing the life and love of the people here - like taking in a breath straight from God - I realized how much of a jerk I was. I wrote an intense apology and sent it to Hannah in the mail. That was the seed that has grown and brought our friendship back to being good friends with one another. I still occasionally chat with her today, often for advice because she is wise. It continues to be one of the oddest but coolest friendships I have... But that is not the hardest and strangest thing I have ever done. Half way through the school year of freshman year, Hannah gets a new boyfriend. His name was Landon. They are still going strong, so they are a serious potential. I still have yet to find a new partner and I'm a Sophomore. That was pretty hard to swallow at first, mostly during the summer after freshman year when I was alone a lot, but since then I've gotten comfortable being single. Life has been pretty good here at college, mostly the beginning of this Sophomore year. I've occaionally encountered them on campus together, and we would avoid one another. Two weeks ago I ran into Hannah and we chatted briefly, I was starting to tell her about my trip to Japan and then Landon approached. I said hi to him, and he just nodded. The man was not stoic or intimidating, but he was keeping a distance. We gazed at each other for a time, unsure what to do with one another, and then Hannah said "Tell me more about Japan some time!" and they went on their way. I walked back to my dorm and sat down. It does not need tobe this way, I thought. I am friends again with Hannah now, I do not need to be awkward towards Landon. I wished I shook his hand or something just to say Hi, I am friendly and respect you. I even thought of that while I stood there in front of Landon, but I could not bring myself to do it with the silent tension between us in that moment. Hannah texted me saying she was impressed I at least tried to say hi, but I was unsatisfied. It could have gone better. That's when it was put upon me I should meet this guy one on one.
  "Be completely humble and gentle, be patient, bearing with one another in love. Make every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace." Ephesians 4:2-3
  Two weeks go by, that thought bugs my mind. He is the one man on campus I feel uncomfortable around. I had another encounter with him at some point and again we avoided one another's sight. I would rehearse in the back of my mind would I would say to this guy if the oppertunity came again. Hi Landon, I feel like we should get to know each other to end awkwardness. We can be bros. Grove City probably will not be the last time we see each another since I live close to Hannah and we graduated from the same high school. So, let's sit down and chat about life, and befriend one another while we're still here on Earth so then we do not have to do this in Heaven...
  Last night I was sitting and rehearsing that to myself again and I looked at the time. It was around 8:00 PM on a Tuesday night. It was not open hours, which means Hannah would not be with Landon if Landon was in his room. And since it is after dusk on a Tuesday night, it is likely that Landon is working on school work and not out and about with Hannah. This was a good time to try and see him. I stood up from what I was working on, sudden determination to meet the guy. Suddenly it slammed into me: What the name of the universe are you doing? I did not need to do this at all, this might even make things more awkward. What if it totally back fires and you and Landon ended up mumbling to each other with meaningless words, leave, and ultimately nothing was resolved about this situation? Again, I do not need to do this, I do not want to do this, they are dating and I could just keep a distance. But there was weight on me spiritually: I should do this. I prayed for a few minutes, wondering around my room asking God if this is something I really needed to do or am I just crazy and fantasizing about Landon and I getting along?
  The answer was not audible, but it was go. Go. Yes, it makes no sense, but GO.
  So I grabbed my wallet, phone, made sure I looked okay, and headed out with the craziest thing I've ever done set as my mission. I have seen of some people who do become good friends with an odd relationship like this, but it was rare. Landon lived on the other side of campus, which campus here is not that big so it was only a four minute walk or so, but once I got halfway I was trembling. The thing holding me back was no longer that this was a crazy mission, but that I was about to be with the guy face to face that in my mind took Hannah away. I was imagining them together, then seeing myself alone. It may have been over a year now that I have been single, but the scars are still not fully gone. The scars have been quiet and rehealing, but suddenly they were revolting as I walked. Perhaps it was because I was fully accepting that I am no longer in Hannah's sights and that Landon was the man now.
  But then I stood firm and said to God, I am spiritually too weak for this. You take over.
  Did God take over? Did I just assert to my body that this was going to happen so it followed through? I am not sure, but what I do know that I, the I I know with all of my flaws, had to take a step back for this to happen. Before I knew it, I was moving foward confidently. Before I knew it, I was standing in front of Landon's door. A lot still hinged on the moment that I began to knock. If Landon was not there, which there was a decent chance he was not because I had no idea what he might do on Tuesday nights, it may have made a large dent on my faith. I felt so called, he had to be in there. If he was not, I am not doing this again.
  What do you know, I hear him put down something and open the door. My heart was beating fast, but I stood there confidently. He did not show any reaction immediately, and the first things out of my mouth were a fast and garbled, "Hey Landon! I don't know what the heck I'm doing but I felt it put upon my heart just to get to know you a bit." His eyebrows raised and he happily said, "Sure man, come on in."
  He lived in a dorm for just one person. His room was chill. I had interrupted him cutting his hair, but he stopped and sat to chat. For a while I stood as we started to break the ice with conversations about our lives in general, but after a little we got to laughing. After a little I felt comfortable enough to also sit down. After a little I stopped shaking. After a while, I felt like I met a new friend.
  We spoke for over two hours. We talked about topics all across the board: family, school, our past, what we like to do in our free time, we even spoke about Hannah once we were both comfortable enough. It was an incredible experience, I must be one of the few people on Earth today to hear the perspective of someone in an active relationship with your ex without it being uncomfortable. We did not just break the ice, we smashed it. He eventually had to cut the conversation so that he could get back to work. We agreed to keep quiet about this and next time we run into each other with Hannah, give each other a big high five and take Hannah totally by surprise. It would be truly epic.
  I left his dormitory so light on my feet I felt like I could fly. I just kept yelling "YES. YES! MISSION COMPLETE. YES!" Nothing I had previously done in life compared to that. I just befriended someone that, in my opinion, is one of the hardest people to befriend. 
  That was one of the biggest faith-based actions I have ever done, and it paid off immensely, even if we do not end up seeing each other after Grove, it healed any scars left over. Suddenly I realized he's just another human making his way through life, and so is Hannah. And I could be friends with both of them despite the past. That perspective erased anything bitter I had left from Hannah and I's terrible relationship that had a brutal crash landing. I doubt that this is where the story ends with my friendship to Hannah and now Landon, I believe there's something bigger that is to happen and that is why God strongly moved me toward meeting Landon... But that story has yet to unfold.
  